Add new Performance Analyzer metrics and fix table formatting (#5182)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _monitoring-your-cluster/pa/reference.md

# Metrics reference

> OpenSearch provides a number of metrics to help you evaluate performance. The tables below describe the metrics available, grouped by the dimensions that are most relevant for that metric. All metrics support the `avg`, `sum`, `min`, and `max` aggregations, although certain metrics measure one thing, making the choice of aggregation irrelevant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch provides a number of metrics to help you evaluate performance. The following tables describe the metrics available, grouped by the dimensions that are most relevant for that metric. All metrics support the `avg`, `sum`, `min`, and `max` aggregations, although certain metrics measure one thing, making the choice of aggregation irrelevant.
```

> OpenSearch provides a number of metrics to help you evaluate performance. The following tables describe the available metrics, grouped by the dimensions that are most relevant for that metric. All metrics support the `avg`, `sum`, `min`, and `max` aggregations, although for certain metrics, the measured value is the same regardless of aggregation type. 

Reviewer 2: Wondering if we should mention `Performance Analyzer` here. `OpenSearch Performance Analyzer plugin provides a number of metrics to ...`, The Performance Analyzer plugin can be turned on and off, so it is important to call out that metrics are coming from the plugin

    <tr>
      <td>Thread_Blocked_Event
      </td>
      <td>The total number of times that the associated thread(s) blocked to enter or reenter a monitor (that is, the number of times a thread has been in the blocked state).
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Thread_Waited_Time
      </td>

>       <td>Average time (seconds) that the associated thread(s) waited to enter or reenter a monitor in the WAITING or TIMED_WAITING state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <td>Average time (seconds) that the associated thread(s) waited to enter or reenter a monitor in the `WAITING` or `TIMED_WAITING` state.
```

Reviewer: Might have to use `<code>` instead of the ` since this is formatted in HTML.

>       <td>Average time (seconds) that the associated thread(s) waited to enter or reenter a monitor in the `WAITING` or `TIMED_WAITING` state.

Author: Updated, thanks! And confirmed that `TIMED` is correct.

      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Thread_Waited_Event
      </td>

>       <td>The total number of times that the associated thread(s) waited to enter or reenter a monitor (that is, the number of times a thread has been in the WAITING or TIMED_WAITING state).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      <td>The total number of times that the associated thread(s) waited to enter or reenter a monitor (that is, the number of times a thread has been in the <code>WAITING</code> or <code>TIMED_WAITING</code> state).
```

  </table>

## Relevant dimension: `ThreadPoolType`   
   
 <table>
   <thead style="text-align: left">
    <tr>
     <th>Metric</th>
     <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>  
   <tr>
     <td>ThreadPool_QueueSize
     </td>
     <td>The size of the task queue.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>ThreadPool_RejectedReqs
     </td>
     <td>The number of rejected executions.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>ThreadPool_TotalThreads
     </td>
     <td>The current number of threads in the pool.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>ThreadPool_ActiveThreads
     </td>
     <td>The approximate number of threads that are actively executing tasks.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>ThreadPool_QueueLatency
     </td>
     <td>The latency of the task queue.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>ThreadPool_QueueCapacity
     </td>
     <td>The current capacity of the task queue.
     </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Relevant dimension: `ClusterManager_PendingTaskType`  
   
 <table>
  <thead style="text-align: left">
   <tr>
    <th>Metric</th>
    <th>Description</th>
   </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>  
   <tr>
     <td>ClusterManager_PendingQueueSize
     </td>

>      <td>The current number of pending tasks in the cluster state update thread. Each node has a cluster state update thread that submits cluster state update tasks (create index, update mapping, allocate shard, fail shard, and so on).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     <td>The current number of pending tasks in the cluster state update thread. Each node has a cluster state update thread that submits cluster state update tasks, such as create index, update mapping, allocate shard, and, fail shard.
```

      </td>
    </tr>
   </tbody>
  </table>

## Relevant dimensions: `ClusterManagerTaskInsertOrder`, `ClusterManagerTaskPriority`, `ClusterManagerTaskType`, `ClusterManagerTaskMetadata`
 
<table>
 <thead style="text-align: left">
   <tr>
     <th>Metric</th>
     <th>Description</th>
   </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>  
   <tr>
     <td>ClusterManager_Task_Queue_Time
     </td>
     <td>The time (milliseconds) that a cluster manager task spent in the queue.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
      <td>ClusterManager_Task_Run_Time
      </td>
      <td>The time (milliseconds) that a cluster manager task has been executed.
      </td>
    </tr>
 </tbody>
</table>
     
## Relevant dimension: `CacheType` 
  
<table>
  <thead style="text-align: left">
    <tr>
     <th>Metric</th>
     <th>Description</th>
   </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>  
   <tr>
     <td>Cache_MaxSize
     </td>
     <td>The max size of the cache in bytes.
     </td>
   </tr>
 </tbody>
</table>

## Relevant dimension: `ControllerName` 
<table>
 <thead style="text-align: left">
  <tr>
    <th>Metric</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>  
  <tr>
    <td>AdmissionControl_RejectionCount 
    </td>

>     <td>Total rejections performed by a Controller of Admission Control.

Reviewer 3: This is a class name `AdmissionController`. "The total number of rejections performed by the `AdmissionController`"?

    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>AdmissionControl_CurrentValue 
    </td>

>     <td>Current value for Controller of Admission Control.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>The current value for Controller of Admission Control.
```

>     <td>Current value for Controller of Admission Control.

Reviewer 3: "The current value of the `AdmissionController`"?

    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>AdmissionControl_ThresholdValue
    </td>

>     <td>Threshold value for Controller of Admission Control.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    <td>The threshold value for Controller of Admission Control.
```

>     <td>Threshold value for Controller of Admission Control.

Reviewer 3: "The threshold value of the `AdmissionController`"?

    </td>
  </tr>
 </tbody>
</table>

## Relevant dimension: `NodeID` 
  
<table>
  <thead style="text-align: left">
   <tr>
   <th>Metric</th>
   <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>  
    <tr>
      <td>Data_RetryingPendingTasksCount 
      </td>

>       <td>Number of throttled pending tasks on which the data node is actively performing retries. It is an absolute metric at that point of time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      <td>The number of throttled pending tasks on which the data node is actively performing retries. It is an absolute metric at that point in time.
```

>       <td>Number of throttled pending tasks on which the data node is actively performing retries. It is an absolute metric at that point of time.

Reviewer 3: The second sentence here is a little awkward/unclear. Can we simplify/clarify? Something like "This is an absolute metric when..."

      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>ClusterManager_ThrottledPendingTasksCount 
      </td>

>       <td>Sum of the total pending tasks which were throttled by the cluster manager node. It is a cumulative metric, so make sure to look at the max aggregation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      <td>The sum of the total pending tasks that were throttled by the cluster manager node. This is a cumulative metric, so make sure to check the max aggregation.
```

      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
 </table>

> ## Relevant dimensions: N/A

Reviewer 3: Is "N/A" a placeholder here?

Author: That's correct, but I added a description to explain what that means.

<table>
  <thead style="text-align: left">
   <tr>
     <th>Metric</th>
     <th>Description</th>
   </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>  
   <tr>
     <td>Election_Term 
     </td>

>      <td>Monotonically increasing number with every cluster manager election.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     <td>A number that increases monotonically with every cluster manager election.
```

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>PublishClusterState_Latency 
     </td>

>      <td>The time taken by the quorum of nodes to publish the new cluster state. This metric is available for the current cluster manager.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     <td>The amount of time taken by the quorum of nodes to publish the new cluster state. This metric is available for the current cluster manager.
```

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>PublishClusterState_Failure 
     </td>

>      <td>The number of times the publish the new cluster state action failed on the cluster manager node.

Reviewer 3: Should "the publish" be here? Should this read "The number of times that the new cluster state action failed on the cluster manager node"?

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>ClusterApplierService_Latency 
     </td>

>      <td>The time taken by each node for the apply cluster state sent by the cluster manager.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     <td>The amount of time taken by each node for the apply cluster state sent by the cluster manager.
```

>      <td>The time taken by each node for the apply cluster state sent by the cluster manager.

Reviewer 3: Should "action" follow "state"?

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>ClusterApplierService_Failure 
     </td>
     <td>The number of times that the apply cluster state action failed on each node.
     </td>
   </tr>
  </tbody>
 </table>

## Relevant dimensions: `IndexName`, `NodeName`, `ShardType`, `ShardID`
  
<table>
   <thead style="text-align: left">
   <tr>
     <th>Metric</th>
     <th>Description</th>
   </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>  
   <tr>
     <td>Shard_State 
     </td>

>      <td>The state of each shard, for example, STARTED, UNASSIGNED, RELOCATING, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     <td>The state of each shard, for example, `STARTED`, `UNASSIGNED`,  and `RELOCATING`.
```

>      <td>The state of each shard, for example, `STARTED`, `UNASSIGNED`,  and `RELOCATING`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     <td>The state of each shard, for example, `STARTED`, `UNASSIGNED`, or `RELOCATING`.
```

     </td>
   </tr>
   </tbody>
</table>

> ## Relevant dimensions: TBD

Reviewer 3: I'm assuming TBD should be replaced here.

 
 <table>
   <thead style="text-align: left">
    <tr>
      <th>Metric</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
   </thead>
   <tbody>  
      <tr>
        <td>LeaderCheck_Latency 
        </td>
        <td> TBD
        </td>
      </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>FollowerCheck_Failure 
      </td>
      <td> TBD
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>LeaderCheck_Failure 
      </td>
      <td> TBD
       </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>FollowerCheck_Latency
      </td>
      <td> TBD
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Relevant dimensions: `NodeID`, `searchbp_mode`
The following metrics are new as of OpenSearch 2.11.

<table>
   <thead style="text-align: left">
   <tr>
     <th>Metric</th>
     <th>Description</th>
   </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody> 
     <tr>
     <td>searchbp_shard_stats_cancellationCount
     </td>
     <td>The number of tasks marked for cancellation on the shard task.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_shard_stats_limitReachedCount
     </td>

>      <td>The number of times when the number of tasks eligible for cancellation exceeded the set cancellation threshold on the shard task.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     <td>The number of times that the number of tasks eligible for cancellation exceeded the set cancellation threshold on the shard task.
```

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_shard_stats_resource_heap_usage_cancellationCount
     </td>
     <td>The number of tasks marked for cancellation because of excessive heap usage since the node last restarted on the shard task.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_shard_stats_resource_heap_usage_currentMax
     </td>
     <td>The maximum heap usage for tasks currently running on the shard task.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_shard_stats_resource_heap_usage_rollingAvg
     </td>

>      <td> The rolling average heap usage for n most recent tasks on the shard task. The default value for n is 100.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     <td> The rolling average heap usage for the n most recent tasks on the shard task. The default value for n is 100.
```

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_shard_stats_resource_cpu_usage_cancellationCount
     </td>

>      <td>he number of tasks marked for cancellation because of excessive CPU usage since the node last restarted on the shard task.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     <td>The number of tasks marked for cancellation because of excessive CPU usage since the node last restarted on the shard task.
```

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_shard_stats_resource_cpu_usage_currentMax
     </td>

>      <td>The maximum CPU time for all tasks currently running on the node on the shard task.

Reviewer 3: Should "time" be "usage"?

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_shard_stats_resource_cpu_usage_currentAvg
     </td>

>      <td>The average CPU time for all tasks currently running on the node on the shard task.

Reviewer 3: Should "time" be "usage"?

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_shard_stats_resource_elaspedtime_usage_cancellationCount
     </td>
     <td>The number of tasks marked for cancellation because of excessive elapsed time since the node last restarted on the shard task.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_shard_stats_resource_elaspedtime_usage_currentMax
     </td>
     <td>The maximum elapsed time for all tasks currently running on the node on the shard task.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_shard_stats_resource_elaspedtime_usage_currentAvg
     </td>
     <td>The average elapsed time for all tasks currently running on the node on the shard task.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_task_stats_cancellationCount
     </td>
     <td>The number of tasks marked for cancellation on the search task level.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_task_stats_limitReachedCount
     </td>

>      <td>The number of times when the number of tasks eligible for cancellation exceeded the set cancellation threshold on the search task level.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     <td>The number of times that the number of tasks eligible for cancellation exceeded the set cancellation threshold on the search task level.
```

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_task_stats_resource_heap_usage_cancellationCount
     </td>
     <td>The number of tasks marked for cancellation because of excessive heap usage since the node last restarted on the search task level.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_task_stats_resource_heap_usage_currentMax
     </td>
     <td>The maximum heap usage for tasks currently running on the search task level.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_task_stats_resource_heap_usage_rollingAvg
     </td>

>      <td> The rolling average heap usage for n most recent tasks on the search task level. The default value for n is 10.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
     <td> The rolling average heap usage for the n most recent tasks on the search task level. The default value for n is 10.
```

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_task_stats_resource_cpu_usage_cancellationCount
     </td>

>      <td>he number of tasks marked for cancellation because of excessive CPU usage since the node last restarted on the search task level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     <td>The number of tasks marked for cancellation because of excessive CPU usage since the node last restarted on the search task level.
```

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_task_stats_resource_cpu_usage_currentMax
     </td>

>      <td>The maximum CPU time for all tasks currently running on the node on the search task level.

Reviewer 3: Should "time" be "usage"?

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_task_stats_resource_cpu_usage_currentAvg
     </td>

>      <td>The average CPU time for all tasks currently running on the node on the search task level.

Reviewer 3: Should "time" be "usage"?

     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_task_stats_resource_elaspedtime_usage_cancellationCount
     </td>
     <td>The number of tasks marked for cancellation because of excessive elapsed time since the node last restarted on the search task level.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_task_stats_resource_elaspedtime_usage_currentMax
     </td>
     <td>The maximum elapsed time for all tasks currently running on the node on the search task level.
     </td>
   </tr>
   <tr>
     <td>searchbp_task_stats_resource_elaspedtime_usage_currentAvg
     </td>
     <td>The average elapsed time for all tasks currently running on the node on the search task level.
     </td>
   </tr>
 </tbody>
</table> 

## Dimensions reference

| Dimension            | Return values                                   |
|----------------------|-------------------------------------------------|

> | ShardID              | The ID for the shard, for example, `1`.           |

Reviewer 3: "of" instead of "for"?

| IndexName            | The name of the index, for example, `my-index`.   |
| Operation            | The type of operation, for example, `shardbulk`.  |

> | ShardRole            | The shard role, for example, `primary`, or `replica`.                            |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ShardRole            | The shard role, for example, `primary` or `replica`.                            |
```

| Exception            | OpenSearch exceptions, for example, `org.opensearch.index_not_found_exception`. |
| Indices              | The list of indexes in the request URL.        |
| HTTPRespCode         | The response code from OpenSearch, for example, `200`. |
| MemType              | The memory type, for example, `totYoungGC`, `totFullGC`, `Survivor`, `PermGen`, `OldGen`, `Eden`, `NonHeap`, or `Heap`. |
| DiskName             | The name of the disk, for example, `sda1`.        |
| DestAddr             | The destination address, for example, `010015AC`. |

> | Direction            | The direction, for example, `in`, or `out`.                                    |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Direction            | The direction, for example, `in` or `out`.                                    |
```

| ThreadPoolType       | The OpenSearch thread pools, for example, `index`, `search`, or `snapshot`. |
| CBType               | The circuit breaker type, for example, `accounting`, `fielddata`, `in_flight_requests`, `parent`, or `request`. |
| ClusterManagerTaskInsertOrder| The order in which the task was inserted, for example, `3691`. |

> | ClusterManagerTaskPriority   | The priority of the task, for example, `URGENT`. OpenSearch executes higher priority tasks before lower priority ones, regardless of `insert_order`. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ClusterManagerTaskPriority   | The priority of the task, for example, `URGENT`. OpenSearch executes higher-priority tasks before lower-priority ones, regardless of `insert_order`. |
```

| ClusterManagerTaskType       | The task type, for example, `shard-started`, `create-index`, `delete-index`, `refresh-mapping`, `put-mapping`, `CleanupSnapshotRestoreState`, or `Update snapshot state`. |
| ClusterManagerTaskMetadata   | The metadata for the task (if any).                 |
| CacheType            | The cache type, for example, `Field_Data_Cache`, `Shard_Request_Cache`, or `Node_Query_Cache`. |

> | NodeID               | The ID for the node.                                |

Reviewer 3: "of" instead of "for"?

  </tr>
 </thead>
 <tbody>  
  <tr>
    <td>AdmissionControl_RejectionCount 
    </td>
    <td>The total number of rejections performed by a Controller of Admission Control.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>AdmissionControl_CurrentValue 
    </td>
    <td>The current value for Controller of Admission Control.
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>AdmissionControl_ThresholdValue
    </td>
    <td>The threshold value for Controller of Admission Control.
    </td>
  </tr>
 </tbody>
</table>

## Relevant dimension: `NodeID` 
  
<table>
  <thead style="text-align: left">
   <tr>
   <th>Metric</th>
   <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>  
    <tr>
      <td>Data_RetryingPendingTasksCount 
      </td>
      <td>The number of throttled pending tasks on which the data node is actively performing retries. It is an absolute metric at that point in time.
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>ClusterManager_ThrottledPendingTasksCount 
      </td>
      <td>The sum of the total pending tasks that were throttled by the cluster manager node. This is a cumulative metric, so make sure to check the max aggregation.
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
 </table>

## Relevant dimensions: N/A

> The following metrics are relevant for the cluster as a whole, and do not require specific dimensions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following metrics are relevant to the cluster as a whole and do not require specific dimensions.
```
